[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>When I found drugs
I thought, this
was the secret they
were keeping from me.
I really did.
I thought, holy shit, this
is how you get through life.
This is how you do it.
Because I would hear people
say, oh, 30 years ago,
this or 40 years--
and I'm thinking,
what kind of
pleasurable memories
could they possibly
have in 40 years.
Because I only got like
11 years of memories.
And I'm ready to forget.
And then I discovered drugs.
And man, I thought,
I could do this.
And I realized,
I started to feel
the way I thought I
was supposed to feel,
that I was supposed to
feel like John Wayne.
But I didn't.
I felt like Gumby.
[MUSIC - MERCY HOWLS, "WORTH"]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>There's a word in Ital-- in
Sicilian-- that's a "funcia."
Now a "funcia" is like a
face, a frown or a face.
Now how this ever came
about, I don't know.
But then there's a "funcia
di minchia," a frowning dick.
So it's a very penile-centric--
>>>>[LAUGHING] Because
"minchia" means "dick," right?
>>Yes.
Yes. "Minchia" means "dick."
But not in the sense that--
it's like, for example, hey,
you know, I just won
a million dollars.
Minchia.
Hey, I just saw somebody
smack your mother.
Minchia.
You know what I mean?
It's one of those
words that it's
the inflection and
the intonation that
means everything.
In and of itself, the word
is almost meaningless.
>>So I remember
when Frank came in,
I was serving tables
at Cafe Gratitude.
You know, new restaurant, we're
having a really good time.
Then this guy walks in
and-- you know, heavyset
Italian from Brooklyn, New
York, sort of obnoxious, but,
you know, has got a really
endearing way of being.
We just get to talk.
And he's telling
me about his past
and what he's doing
in San Francisco.
And we just really hit it off.
And we just connected.
There was just a place in
my heart that I had for him.
Every day at Cafe Gratitude,
we have a question of the day.
And the question of
the day was, what do
you want to do before you die.
And Frank said, I want to
fall in love one more time.
And I don't think anyone
will love me with this body
that I'm wearing.
Because I don't love myself.
This propelled me into action.
And I just was like, you
want to do something?
You want to do an experiment?
How about you come in here,
and you eat this food,
and you allow us to be your
transformational cheerleaders
and get up under you and support
you in loving yourself, loving
your life, loving your body so
that someone else can love you.
And we'll document the thing.
>>I think it might have been
the next day, Frank came back.
And he was like, let's do this.
At this point, we
didn't have a camera.
We didn't have any-- I didn't
have any filmmaking experience.
You know, we didn't really
know what we were doing.
So we just really jumped in.
We went for it.
>>Frank's one of those guys
that, when he walks in,
he's not someone who's
quiet until you meet them.
He walks in and, before he
knows anyone in the room,
he's already commenting about
the space or making a joke.
So immediately, I liked him.
Because I like people
that are just funny
and say what
everyone's thinking.
And Frank definitely does that.
Immediately, there
was the comedy
that was going to happen
out of New Yorker taking
on eating vegan raw
food for 40 days
was going to be pretty
funny, especially
someone who was going to
say what they were thinking
while they were eating it.
I'm hoping this project
with Frank will give him
a different perspective.
He's definitely
going to transform.
And I think if we can heal
the self-diminishing aspect
of Frank, that's going to change
a lot of aspects of his life.
>>In 2002 I was diagnosed with
hepatitis C. Prior to that,
I had gone through
a battery of tests
to try to establish why I
was so fatigued all the time.
And they didn't find
the hepatitis C.
And so they were treating me
for narcolepsy, for God's sake.
And it all made sense
all of a sudden.
I had no opportunity
or window for denial
that maybe this
wasn't happening.
Because the fatigue
was with me constantly.
So a doctor put me on
Ribavirin and interferon, which
I was told was sort of a form
of chemotherapy similar to what
women with breast cancer get.
So I'm taking
Ribavirin every day
and an injection of
interferon every week.
However, to counter the
side effects of these drugs,
I'm taking a slew of other
medications, anti-depressants--
because one of the side
effects is depression.
Another side effect is fatigue.
Another side effect
is achy joints.
is irritability.
Another side effect
is poor sleep.
I mean, it's like on, and
on, and on, and on, and on.
In the morning I practically
take a fistful of pills
that, I don't really even
know what they're doing.
They just tell me to take
them and I take them.
And I feel really terrible
about it, quite frankly.
I don't know if I'm sad
because something's happening
or if I'm sad because
of the medications.
It's just awful.
It's just a really, really
difficult place to be.
Ultimately, I come
back to the place
where I'm here and in this
situation because of the way
I played my cards, the
decisions that I made when
I was out there using,
and ripping, and running,
and carrying on.
And on top of it, I'm
lucky that it's not worse.
Because it could be worse.
It could be HIV.
It could be a series
of other things.
I'm lucky, because I have an 80%
chance of getting through this.
But I'm not feeling to luck.
I'm not feeling the gratitude.
I keep thinking,
everyday, well, something
will happen today that
will create a shift.
And I keep thinking,
a shift is coming.
I know that I--
somewhere in me, I
believe that things
are going to change.
It's just that I don't
see how or I don't
know how it's going to happen.
But there's something
way down there
that gets me to get out of
bed and put one foot in front
of the other and carry on.
And some days are
harder than others.
>>We grew up in Bushwick,
Brooklyn-- Brooklyn, New York.
The type of neighborhood it
was at the time was early '50s.
We lived in a $100
a month 5-room flat.
Poor, I guess.
Yeah.
I guess it's difficult saying
that for whatever reason.
But yeah, we were poor.
>>I had four children
in that apartment.
Whatever was difficult, it
was not to have a child.
Because that's what I want.
So when Frankie was
born I was in Heaven.
>>I admired-- you
know, Frank was God.
He was my older brother.
He was a role model,
I guess you'd say.
But he just didn't
like me very much.
I guess I was a pain in the ass.
I don't know.
>>As a kid, Frank was--
he loved to laugh.
And Frank had a
really big laugh.
And Angelo make him
laugh all the time.
And if they weren't laughing
together, they were fighting.
>>Frankie busted me
up a couple times.
One time I got him pissed
off for some fucking reason
and he threw a toy horn at me.
And it punctured my head.
And fucking blood
came flying out.
My mother was screaming.
Another time he was trying
to keep me out of the house.
And we had this big door with
a big piece of glass in it.
And he pushed the glass in.
And that fucking glass
showered all over me.
It cut me up pretty bad.
Frank was a prick.
He just had to be in control.
You know, he was the--
well, he was the firstborn.
You're the king of the mountain.
And then all of a sudden,
there's somebody else there.
>>My relationship
with Frank changed
when he started to
really get into drugs.
>>It was lightweight at first.
Frankie, being
older and whatever,
started messing with
powders, specifically speed.
At first, it was
this whole thing.
Needles were totally taboo.
I remember my
mother finding a set
of what we used to call
gimmicks in a Marlboro box.
It was a homemade syringe
and blah, blah, blah.
And I remember her smashing it,
throwing it in the incinerator.
>>He did marijuana, hash.
We all experimented-- I
experimented as well--
with drugs.
But it wasn't until he
started doing heroin
that our relationship
really deteriorated.
>>I was 14.
I was 14 years old and
I was a fucking junkie.
Frankie was 15 and 1/2.
He was a fucking junkie.
I remember it was like a ritual.
Either one or the other
of us would come home
with a little bit of smack.
That became a ritual.
That became something that we
both really, really enjoyed
and looked forward
and were disappointed
that we couldn't keep it going.
Actually, some of the best
times I had with Frankie,
unfortunately, was
around chasing junk.
Primarily, it wound
up the way it did
because we had no good guides.
We had no fucking good guides.
>>So I'll read this.
Ready?
I agree to eat three meals
at Cafe Gratitude which
are approved by either
Mathew or Tersus.
Two, I agree to complete my
daily log book every day,
all portions, at breakfast.
OK.
I agree to do my daily
affirmation every day
when I wake up and
every night before bed.
I agree to walk 15
minutes every day.
Yes.
I agree to order my food
in its affirmation name.
I agree to drink a
gallon of water a day.
And I agree to call either
Cary, Conor, or Ryland
and communicate whether I have
completed my daily agreement
or not.
I agree to be on time
for all my appointments.
I agree, gratefully and
happily, to be on time
for all my divine appointments.
I agree to not degrade myself.
I agree not to degrade myself.
I agree to relate to
my food as medicine
and my medicine as my food.
Ah, yes.
I agree to be coachable
and be in this project
with a beginner's mind.
Yes, I do.
Absolutely have my word.
I understand and agree to relate
to Conor, Cary, and Ryland
as coaches and my coaches in
the transformation of my life.
What does that-- I mean, I'm
not sure what that means.
I mean if that's--
>>Well, it's kind of like you--
>>Respect?
>>Well, no, it's like a coach.
Like, to understand
that we are your coach.
Like, if you're an athlete and
the game that we're playing
is transformation of your life,
you are the player in that.
And we're your coach.
And just to know that
when we say things to you
and when we-- it's because
we are coaching you
in getting this surrendering.
>>I'm already resisting.
>>I know.
It's great.
>>I'm already resisting.
But I agree.
>>Come on, Frank.
These have got to go.
These are not-- maybe they're
raw, but they're frozen.
But they got no nutrition.
This, it has got to go.
That would fit right
there on your belly.
That's enough of that.
And looks like he's got fried
chicken-- a double no-no, fried
and chicken.
Man.
What else we got in here?
Oh man, Hamburger
Helper and peas.
Oh man.
A lot's going to
change in there.
>>It's a boombox.
>>Bootleg Apple-O's.
Ha, ha.
>>Nice try, Frankie.
>>I haven't eaten
any of that crap.
>>Don't worry, this isn't
going to be [INAUDIBLE].
>>I haven't eaten any of that.
>>Yeah, right.
Motherload.
Jackpot.
>>Rancher's Reserve.
>>What is that?
What is it?
What's the cut?
>>T-bone.
>>Pot roast.
>>Chuck.
He can't even be with us.
He left the room right now.
Motherload.
We know what Frankie's
been sneaking.
>>Chicken nuggets that were
here the first day I met Frank.
Still there.
At least he didn't eat them.
>>Oh, look at this.
>>Yum.
>>That was good.
>>That's actually
growing vegetables on it.
Ha, ha.
>>Ooh, cheese.
>>Parmesan.
Neighbors will have that.
>>Butter.
>>Butter, le beurre.
A fresh one in the pot for the
neighbors. [INAUDIBLE] out.
>>What about this?
>>Syrup?
No, sir.
>>Sugar.
>>What's that?
Salt?
>>Salt.
>>Yeah, no.
>>Pasta.
>>That's not mine.
That was left here.
>>Liar.
You ready to give
away your microwave?
>>What do I gotta give
away my microwave for?
One of the things
I find interesting
about the boys, Ryland,
Conor, and Cary,
are three completely different
human beings operating
within a similar paradigm.
When we're together it
really feels like a family.
When we're in the same
place doing our thing
it's very playful.
It really feels
like-- I sometimes
feel like a lion with,
like, mid-sized cubs.
Ryland is like a very
energetic yes guy.
He's sort of impetuous, but
in a really wonderful way.
He's impetuous because
he's so positive.
He's the guy that I'm
very careful about talking
to about stuff.
Because I'll say something and
he'll say, OK, well, let's go
do it.
You know?
Sometimes with Conor,
I get the impression
that when he looks at
me, he really empathizes.
I get the feeling
that he really knows
what's going on inside
of me at that given time.
They're all playful, but he's
playful in a different way.
He's got one foot in the
adult world and one foot
in the teenage world.
And he plays music
and he does fun things
and goes out with 40-year-old
women, which is pretty cool.
And then there's Cary,
who's really contemplative
and, I guess for some,
could be hard to read.
I don't think he's hard to read.
But he does play his cards
very close to his chest.
And he's very careful.
But unfortunately
for him, I find
it easy to read through
that because I understand it
very well.
You need oregano,
and you need lettuce,
and you need tomatoes
to make a salad.
You know?
And every ingredient is
integral to that salad.
And put them all together
and it's wonderful.
Individually,
they're all good too.
But that's what it's like.
They're like a salad.
I can separate them.
But in the end, they're
from one bowl of lunacy.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>The whole thing
started off of me
being impacted by him
saying, for his body
to look like it
does, you don't feel
like you're going to be
able to love yourself enough
that someone else
would love you.
And here we are, starting this
process of you loving yourself
and loving your body
on Valentine's Day.
>>Four ounces of wheat grass--
>>Oh, joy.
>>--in the morning, yeah.
And then we're going to
give you a smoothie that's
going to be mostly coconut
milk with figs, cacao,
which is chocolate, Vitamineral
Green, a super concentrated
green smoothie food.
And it's going to have
a few dates in it.
So your midday meal
is the enchilada
with a salad and 16 ounces
of I Am Healthy, which
is the kale, celery, cucumber--
>>We had that yesterday.
>>--lemon juice.
>>That's the one that your
brother has a hard time
downing, yes.
>>Look at that breakfast.
Let's have a shot
of that breakfast.
>>Yeah.
>>So Frank--
>>You Are Renewed.
>>--one thing you can sure
of, almost every nutrient that
exists exists in there.
That you could live on.
This is just your treat.
>>This looks like
it should be mowed.
>>Yeah.
It actually was mowed and
then it turned into that.
>>And the taste is
repulsive to the degree
that you need to detox.
>>Oh, how convenient.
How convenient.
>>And it's funny
that he says that.
Because just
yesterday-- you know,
Frank does know
almost everything--
he was talking about
expresso and that he has
four or five shots of expresso.
And he realizes, at this
point, four and five shots
is still not carrying
him through the day.
>>Right.
I'm just using coffee like
an amphetamine, essentially,
to get past that next-- and what
I mentioned to him yesterday
was, I noticed, at the workshop,
that when you and Tersus, you
and your wife, at 9 o'clock
in the morning, when
you're starting, you look
exactly the same at 6:00.
Which, I'm ready to collapse.
I'm looking for a place
to hide and go to sleep.
But you have
remained consistent.
You're not up.
You're not down.
And I noticed that.
And that looked really
attractive to me.
And here it is, with the
stuff that's in the back
of the lawnmower.
Just drink it?
>>Don't down the whole thing.
>>Oh, man.
>>Medicine-- remember, it's
not food, it's medicine.
>>You got that right.
Shit, the only thing
missing is a little--
add a little quinine
to it why don't ya?
Oh, man.
>>It's sweet though, isn't it?
[LAUGHING]
Oh god, he's doing
it champ style.
>>Ooh.
>>Drink some water.
>>Coconut milk chaser.
>>I don't know
what-- I don't know
if I trust you guys to
bring me anything anymore.
Oh my god.
All right.
What--
>>Either one.
>>Don't slam that one.
Enjoy that one.
>>Oh, much better.
No, that's good.
But then again, after this--
>>Anything's good.
>>--motor oil would
probably be pretty good.
>>No caffeine after today.
If you get--
>>Headaches?
>>Do a little black tea.
But wean yourself off of that.
But don't go there
if you don't have to.
So you just repeat after me, OK?
>>Oh, god.
I Frank--
>>Do love me--
>>--do love me--
>>--my body's vigor--
>>--and harmony.
>>I am--
>>--perfect health--
>>--radiant beauty--
>>--and divine energy.
>>I now hold in my mind--
>>--this new image of myself--
>>--as a thriving--
>>--flourishing--
>>--and gloriously
beautiful person.
>>That's it.
>>Oh, thank you.
Wow.
Every muscle in my body's about
to split in half right now.
>>[LAUGHING]
That's so great.
[MAN PLAYING GUITAR]
>>Cafe Gratitude is a vegan,
organic, mostly raw food
restaurant as well as it is
a school of transformation
for its employees,
and ultimately,
for the community that
it exists inside of.
Due to contrary belief, raw
food is more than carrot
sticks, celery,
and ranch dressing.
Raw food is vegetables,
fruits, nuts, and seeds
that you don't heat up
above between about 114
and 118 degrees such that the
enzymatic life in that food
does not die.
And it's still living.
And it has all its
full nutrition.
Working here, it really
give me a platform
to deliver my life purpose.
And that really is
supporting other people
in getting their greatness.
There's nothing
more inspiring to me
than seeing people go out on
the limb of their own lives
and getting that they are
what makes their life great.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>Let me know what's
bothering you physically.
>>Physically-- well, first
of all, I'm overweight.
>>OK.
>>That's bothering me.
And-- [CLEARS THROAT]
excuse me--
coming with that, I
suppose, is fatigue.
But I think the
hepatitis C contributed
a great-- contributes a
great deal to the fatigue.
>>OK.
And when were you diagnosed?
>>About four or five years ago.
>>OK.
These are the medications
you're on right now.
You're taking the Effexor too?
OK.
Provigil and these other
two, the interferon
and the Ribavirin?
>>Right.
>>Are you taking any
nutritional supplements?
>>No.
And I'll tell you why.
The reason I don't
take them is because I
don't know who to believe.
For example, if I speak to
four doctors about vitamins
and supplements, I'll have one
that tells me they're useless,
one'll tell me, you'll die
if you don't take them,
the other one says
just take this one,
and the other one says
it's all bullshit.
And so these are all guys
with the same diploma.
So I don't know what to do.
>>So currently you're
not on any supplements?
>>No, I don't take anything.
But I'm sure you're going to
tell me which ones to take.
>>Yeah.
Any allergies?
>>Cats and liver.
>>Liver?
>>And cats.
>>Any gas or bloating?
>>No.
>>Bowel movements every day?
>>Every day.
>>OK.
How many times.
>>Depends.
Usually I have one major event--
>>OK.
>>--and sometimes,
a moderate event.
>>OK.
>>But the first one is usually
like the blitz over London.
>>OK.
>>And so it's very, very
satisfying experience.
>>OK.
All set.
Any blurring of vision,
ringing in your ears?
>>No.
>>Chest pain, palpitations?
>>Only when I'm anxious.
>>OK.
OK.
Close your mouth.
Have you taken a lot of
antibiotics in the past?
Well, not a lot--
>>Not a lot.
>>--just when
something was wrong.
>>Do you get any swelling
in your feet, your ankles?
>>Only during my
menstrual cycle.
Then it goes away
in about three days.
>>How is your libido,
your sex drive?
>>I have none at the moment.
I haven't had sex--
I don't even remember
the last time I saw my
dick, which is really
a crime for a warm-blooded
Sicilian guy like myself
full of poetry and romance.
OK.
>>It's 287.
>>What?
Marone.
>>287 pounds.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[PHONE RINGING]
[BUZZING]
>>So Frank, I know
you're nervous.
But I've done thousands
of sessions since '92.
And every single
first-time client
has always-- at the end of
the session they say, pff,
that was no big deal.
>>The nerve-wracking
things isn't necessarily
the mechanics of it.
It's actually showing you my ass
that's really quite disturbing.
>>[LAUGHING]
>>Because there's no way
you can get around it.
You can put as much guru shit
around the walls as you want.
At one point, you've
got to look at my ass.
And that's the part
that's disturbing.
>>Whenever you're ready, please
roll onto your left side.
>>She says that
like a stewardess.
>>Prepare for takeoff.
Great.
And you know, some men
do think this must be
what it's like to have a child.
But women say it's more
like menstrual cramps.
>>OK.
Release.
Oh man.
>>Lots of gas leaving, so good.
>>Do you want the thumper?
>>The what?
>>The thumper.
>>That's a serious vibrator.
>>It is a serious vibrator.
>>This is a vibrator
for much older women.
Oh my god, there's
more power than that?
Jesus Christ.
>>Here, I'll help you with that.
There's a little catch to it.
>>Aye, yi, yi.
You might want to
put on double gloves.
>>I'm not afraid of your poop.
>>Oh my god.
Oh, man.
>>Please roll onto
your left side.
Take your time.
>>Yeah, you got
that right, honey.
[TOILET SEAT DROPPING]
>>So is Billy coming--
>>Oh, man.
Oh.
>>Did he have some stuff?
>>Oh.
Oh.
It was an experience,
I'll tell you.
It was not quite
what I expected,
but not that much of a
departure from what I expected.
It's hard to-- no matter
how delicately you
try to put this,
essentially, what
you're having is an avalanche.
It's a avalanche is
what's happening.
It's like El Nino and
Katrina all mixed into one.
And it feels like-- you
get these rumbling feelings
in your stomach.
And you don't know
what's going to happen.
And the next thing you
know, something happens.
But this is something I
normally wouldn't even
share with my brother here I
am, on camera, talking about.
BMs-- Jesus, oy.
[PHONE RINGING]
>>Hello, you have
reached the voicemail box
of Frank Ferrante.
Kindly leave a message
and a telephone number
and I will return your
call as soon as possible.
Thank you for calling.
Arrivederci.
[BEEP]
>>Hey Frankie, this is Cary.
I'm just calling to see if
you've pooped yet today.
I was hoping to be over
there for the first BM.
Looking forward to
some colloidal plaque.
Let us know if it comes out.
Definitely do not flush it.
I want to get over there
to take some shots.
And give us a call
back so we can be there
for that big event.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>It's day two of
the experiment.
And he didn't make
it in for lunch.
He made it in for breakfast,
has four shots of wheat
grass and his green smoothie.
And now he calls
around lunchtime
saying he's got the shivers.
He's shivering out his ass.
He's got runs.
We're going to go check up
on him, see how he's doing.
I imagine it's just a detox.
All that wheat grass
in his system's
probably just sucking all the
toxins out of his body so--
[RECORD SCRATCHING]
>>This is what day
two looks like.
I feel if it's my heart and
soul the trusts these guys,
my body is telling me, get
the fuck back to New York.
Dealing with a body that's been
around-- that's been around.
And right now, I think that
between the interferon and that
green god-knows-what
is in that grass--
>>What have the bowel
movements looked like?
>>Oh, god.
Do you really want to know?
>>Yeah, we want to know.
>>Some weird web string
shit came out of me.
And I don't know what that was.
And I don't want to know.
But it was like-- it looked
like fishing line or something.
It's like my body's
undergoing the equivalent
of a nervous breakdown.
>>Do you get that
the workbook is just
as important as the food?
And it's going to support you
mentally, and your clarity,
and your energy.
>>I can't believe that
you guys are so young
and you've got this.
This is just amazing to me.
>>So this is "The
Abounding River" logbook.
And it's part of the
spiritual practice
that we're going to have Frank
do over the next 42 days.
And it was written by the owners
of Cafe Gratitude, Matthew
and Terces Englehart.
And what they say is
that, in this book,
you practice six currents
or ways of being-- creation,
self-worth, love and acceptance,
gratitude, generosity,
and abundance.
What that means is,
number one, someone
who loves your
life-- really taking
on the practice of being
someone who loves your life just
the way it is right now.
Number two, someone who adores
yourself-- being someone
who can look in the
mirror and actually say,
I love and adore myself.
Number three, someone
who accepts the world--
really taking on accepting the
way that people are and the way
that people aren't--
other people.
Number four, being someone
who is generous and grateful
every single day--
actually taking
on the conscious practice
of that, not just having it
miraculously show up, but
actually practicing it
every single day.
And then number
five, experiencing
being provided
for-- you actually
practice being provided
for, seeing how
provided for you
already are the world,
how many things are working
on your behalf right now.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>Day number six.
>>That's about abundance.
So the quote is from Lao Tzu.
And it says, "When you
realize nothing is lacking,
the whole world belongs to you."
Make a list of three things
you want most in your life.
OK.
So what are
>>Now?
>>Yeah.
>>I want a loving
relationship with my daughter.
I want a Ph.D. And I want to be
able to be of maximum service
to mankind.
I want to be of service.
>>What would your experience
be if you had all three?
In other words, how would
you feel about yourself?
What would your
experience of yourself be?
>>I think I wouldn't
think about it.
I think I would be in that
place where I wouldn't think
about how I feel about myself.
>>So what would the
experience of not thinking--
>>The experience?
Fulfilled.
>>Fulfilled, great.
>>Fulfilled.
>>Yeah.
>>Great.
So practice being
that fulfilled now.
>>OK.
>>Close your eyes.
Close your eyes and
practice being fulfilled.
Throughout the day, stop and
You are the one who creates
whether you're fulfilled
or not.
You get to say.
You get that?
There's no fulfilled
in the world, is there?
>>Fulfilled is just is.
It just is or it isn't.
>>Well, but do you get
that it's a choice?
>>Yeah.
>>There's a lot of people
that have relationships
with their daughters,
who have Ph.Ds,
and make a difference in the
world and aren't fulfilled.
But can you get, it's just
a moment to moment choice?
>>Yeah.
>>OK.
Can you choose being
fulfilled right now?
>>Yeah.
>>OK.
Great.
That's it.
>>Yeah, actually, it's
easier than I thought.
>>Just repeat after me.
>>Repeat after me.
>>You repeat after me.
>>Yes, sir.
>>I, Frank--
>>I Frank--
I Frank--
>>--do love me--
--do love--
--me--
>>--my body's--
>>--vigor--
>>--my body's vigor.
I am perfect health.
I'm a perfect human being.
--radiant breath of--
--radiant breath--
>>--radiant beauty--
>>--and divine--
--energy.
--and divine energy.
>>I am divine--
>>--loving, having a-- Frank--
>>--not the guy in the movie.
>>No, no.
Come on.
>>OK.
Sorry.
>>You can't do that.
>>Are you talking to me?
>>Like you're telling them.
>>It feels terrible.
>>You can't do the comedy to--
>>All right, all
right, all right.
>>--to waver the impact.
This is what you want.
>>All right, all
right, all right.
OK.
>>OK.
>>I now hold--
--in my mind--
--this new image of myself--
--as a thriving--
--flourishing--
--gloriously--
--beautiful human--
>>--beautiful person.
>>--person.
OK?
Thank you.
>>Woo-ooh.
>>You almost got me.
That was better.
I feel better.
Take it easy.
Now get outta here before
you think of something else.
>>Yeah.
>>My name is Anusha
Amen-Ra and I'm
the director of Sacred Space
Healing & Retreat Center.
And I'm also our
staff nutritionist.
We're going to take a quick
look, here, at your blood.
This is what we call a live
blood analysis, in which we're
using a darkfield microscope.
So one of the first things
that I'm seeing here
is you've got some
bacterial forms that
are in your protoplasm.
You probably have a serious
issue with yeast overgrowth.
Anybody who has cancer, any
other kind of major disease,
long before you get
that-- 20, 30, 40
years before that-- you start
having issues with yeast
overgrowth.
Frank has all of the
issues of illness
that are appropriate for
someone who eats that way.
Say if you have an almond
and you take that almond
and you plant it
into the ground,
it grows into an almond tree.
Then, if you take an
almond and you cook it
and then you plant
it in the ground,
it doesn't grow into anything.
The reason is because enzymes
have been killed in it.
And so it cannot then create
life as a result of that.
He's venturing out into
the unknown for him.
And it takes courage to do that.
[BACKGROUND CONVERSATIONS]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>Whoa, Frank, you scared
the shit out of me, man.
>>I scared you?
>>We decided we'd come
and check in on you.
>>I'm glad you did.
>>I'm glad we did too.
>>I've been thinking
about you guys anyway.
I don't know if you can tell,
but I feel a little wobbly.
I don't know if you can--
>>Yeah, I could tell right away.
>>My shoulder blades
are killing me.
And if I take more
medicine I'm afraid I'm not
going to get up in the morning.
By virtue of the affection
I have for you guys,
it's important to me to be
the best, just to do my best.
And then that's
the only way I'll
be able to forgive
myself if I fuck up.
But sometimes that's very hard.
And sometimes I'm not
really sure how to do that.
>>What are you afraid of?
>>I'm afraid of
letting you down.
Really, I'm afraid
of letting you down.
And then more than that,
I'm afraid that you'll just
cut out.
In any kind of
affectionate relationship,
whether it's a romantic
relationship of a friendship,
once you realize that
you really dig the person
then you run the
risk of getting hurt.
And this lady that I met
in the restaurant tonight
said something to
me really powerful,
so powerful that
I just almost-- it
stopped me dead in my tracks.
I almost got misty.
She said, love like
you've never been hurt.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I met Mia in 1977,
I think it was.
I went to a place called Ones.
And this woman shows up.
She was the color of dark honey.
She had a red
carnation in her hair.
I was completely mesmerized
by this woman's beauty.
I mean, I thought she
was most beautiful woman
I had ever seen in my life.
We exchanged numbers.
And she called.
And I thought, oh my god,
she actually called me back.
It was like a movie
star calling me back.
I couldn't believe it.
We started talking and
we started going out.
When I realized how
much I cared for her
was when I was alone
in the dark room.
I would be developing prints.
And watching her image
emerge in the tray
was similar to the feeling
I was having internally.
Up until that time I had
never make the moves on her.
Because I was so captivated
by her that I was treating
her like a piece of China.
Like, just her being there
was more than enough.
And mind you, I'm
in my late 20s.
I'd get a hard-on
when the wind blew.
I mean it was just--
I knew I was in love.
Once that door opened though,
it was a physical attraction
that would last decades.
I mean, even after
10 years of marriage,
she could not get dressed
or undressed in front of me
without me chasing
her around the house.
Even if she was mean, nasty,
or hateful-- like sometimes
I would be sitting there.
And as she's yelling
at me about something,
all I could think of was,
when she stops yelling at me,
I'm going to fuck her.
But that went on
for a long time.
Even after we got
divorced-- I mean,
we were separated and we still,
like, had our interludes.
>>Frank, what do you say isn't
the best about your life?
>>The thing I'd
say that disturbs
me the most about my life is my
relationship with my daughter,
or lack thereof,
and my inability
to find a way to fix
it, to find a way
to generate a conversation that
is a loving conversation that
doesn't come from
a-- doesn't wind up
in a place of accusation
and insult and hurt.
[MUSIC EXCUSES FOR SKIPPING,
"SEEDS"]
[SLIDE CHANGING CLICKS]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>I had a very difficult day.
I lost my voice early
yesterday-- late
last night-- sometime.
I had a really difficult
conversation with my daughter
again.
And I know that I've got to be--
I know that I could be handling
this better than I am.
But I seem to lose
it at one point
when I really get this
feeling that she doesn't care.
And I realize that
that's not true.
And in the middle of it
I get caught up in it.
Although this seems
like really stuff,
it just seemed to
really bother me,
and particularly, the
thing with my kid.
And I don't know how
much of this discomfort
I'm going through has
to do with the detoxing,
and the cleansing, and the
other medications that I'm
taking for the hep C,
and the fact that this
is like a week without
anti-depressants, first week
in over 10 years.
Yeah, first week in
well over 10 years.
I don't know.
I think there's a part of
me that just-- it's not even
the sex thing, you know?
But it would be nice to
have a woman in my bed.
That sounds like-- I don't know.
I feel like I'm judging
everything I'm saying.
That sounds dopey.
I guess it sounds
like how it sounds.
And I'm sure that I'm not the
only person in the world that
feels this way right
now at this moment.
But I'll tell ya,
there's something
to be said about human
beings and contact.
Because I really haven't had a
genuine-- except for that tango
lesson.
And I almost melted.
I hadn't been that
close to a woman
and danced like that
since I can remember.
It was amazing.
And once I was aware of
the depth of the yearning
when this woman embraced me
and led me around the room--
You know what, I'm tired.
And I did my-- did it all right.
Sounds good.
That'll do it.
I'm going to sign off now.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>I think that my sister has a
hard time opening up my father
simply based off the fact
that she watched my mother go
through some hard times.
And there was a
resentment that built
over a long period of time
that I wasn't aware of as much
as I could have been.
And I was there with my
father and seeing the anguish
that he was going
through not being
able to talk to his daughter.
And then that's built up to now.
And now it's become an
explosion of emotion.
Everybody is
resenting everybody.
I want to see my father and
my sister look at each other
and hug each other
immediately without any type
of past discretions.
I want to see it melt away.
And I want them
to both let it go.
And if they don't, it makes
me fearful of the future.
[MUSIC - CALEXICO, "MID-TOWN"]
>>Bless you, my child.
>>Enjoy.
>>Boy, I'm so happy to be
drinking this elixir of life.
Wa-blu-blu-blu.
Ah.
Oh.
Man, that's so good.
>>You know the bathroom's
right there if you need it.
>>What's the point of doing that
if I'm going to throw it up?
Are you kidding?
You think I'm getting
rid of it now?
You're out of your mind.
Do I look bulimic to you?
>>Come right on into the
colonic room if you will.
>>Oh, joy of joys.
After you, of course.
>>Your gown is on the heater.
>>Oh joy.
First one, I felt like--
the first one was actually
almost scary, because
it was so playful.
Shayla said, you know,
your life will change.
It happens to some people.
I said, yeah, right.
OK.
I've tried so hard
to change my life.
This lady's going to stick a
tube up my ass with some water
and my life's going to change.
Right.
Like everything else, I
surrendered into it and did it.
And I was in so much pain I
could hardly walk properly
when I got out of there,
not from the tube,
but rather from the spasms,
the intestinal spasms.
By the next one, it
was a little different.
And by the third
one, I had become--
I felt like Shirley
MacLaine was in my house.
Because I started cleaning
like you would not believe.
I started taking
care of everything.
Shortly after that I was a
hardware store for something
and I saw all these paints.
And so I bought like $20,
$25 worth of these paints
and these little brushes.
And I just started
painting the walls.
And I'm thinking,
who is this guy?
Really, who is this guy?
And then the next
week, I told her that.
And she says something
to the effect
that, if I remember
correctly, these
were things that were yearning
to be expressed all along.
And you weren't doing it.
And I said, all because
I needed to take a dump?
She says, well, no.
It's more than that.
And it really is.
Because when I try to explain
to people what I'm doing,
it's impossible to
just say one thing
is responsible for this or that.
Between talking to
Matt at the restaurant,
you guys being on my
case like white on rice,
and me forcing
myself to do things
that I really don't
want to do, all of that
has helped me come back to
the person I was supposed
to be in the first place.
>>Thank you so much, Frank.
>>Are you ever going to stop?
>>Morning, sweetheart.
>>Are you ever
going to stop this?
You know what,
the hell with you.
You know what?
OK?
The heck with you.
Our John Lennon.
OK?
Fuck it.
What am I trying to hide?
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>>You all right, Frank?
>>Yeah.
>>Any release?
>>All right.
Tell me, now, that I have
a story about my ego.
a story about my image
and looking good.
Tell me.
I dare you.
I fucking dare you.
Ah, there's a lot
of shit up there.
All right.
There we go.
Poo, p-- p-- poo.
Poo.
And here's the thing, man.
People that are undergoing
chemotherapy and with all
of those god-awful side effects,
I'm not feeling any of them.
If you remember,
three weeks ago, I
could barely fucking walk up
here I was feeling so shitty.
And now I'm feeling energetic.
I'm not thinner,
but I feel thinner.
Which, it's more important to
feel good than to look good.
And if this regimen with
these people and the food
at the restaurant
and just, of course,
the affection and care--
I mean, people suffer so bad
from side effects from chemo.
And I'm not saying
it's the answer.
I'm not saying it.
But it's worth a try, man.
[STREETCAR BELL]
>>Me and my wife and my two
daughters went to see Frankie.
He wasn't in the
greatest states of mind
when we went to see him.
He wasn't very happy.
Frankie was still going through
major changes with the diet
and dealing with the emotional
upheaval of cleansing.
Because there was a great degree
of cleansing, as you guys know.
There was stuff that he felt
compelled that he had to do.
Which, one of them was
some kind of an apology.
Exactly what the apology was
for, I'm still not clear on.
And so he tells you to take
a deep breath and all that.
>>Yeah.
So the thing lasted
about an hour.
But at one point, he
touched a part of my back.
And all of a sudden, it was
like, danger, Will Robinson.
Like all of these things-- you
know, danger, Will Robinson.
Something was like--
he unleashed something.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>[SIGH]
>>Feeling [INAUDIBLE]?
>>I'm feeling very
sad, actually.
>>What's going on?
What's present?
>>I was just thinking about
a time I beat up my brother.
I hit him so hard, like
I wanted to kill him.
And all my life, I
got a pain in my back
the same place
that I punched him.
I always felt bad about it.
I just didn't know how
bad I felt about it.
And I never knew-- I felt
bad enough to carry it.
Because I've had spasms there
all my life since that time.
But I never associated it.
I never associated
that-- I mean,
that it was part
of my regret for having
been so cruel to my brother.
Then I started thinking
about all the other things,
you know, like all the
shitty things they I did.
Like first of all, I gave
you your first shot of dope.
That thing with Nancy, I always
felt really bad about that.
>>So did she.
>>I slept with a girl that
he really cared about.
And shit like that, that
really corrodes the soul.
You know?
It just corrodes the soul.
Well you know, when
I got arrested,
you still scrambled
all over the place
to come and get me out of jail.
>>You don't let your
brother stay in jail.
>>Shh.
Shh.
I've always felt bad about
you taking care of mom
all by yourself without
any help from me.
I really don't think that
you can separate the two.
I don't think that the
pain you cause other people
can be separated from the pain
that you incur on yourself.
It's the same thing.
It just never occurred to me.
I would say it, but I didn't
know it until just now.
I didn't know that every
time I took something
from somebody that didn't
belong to me that I was actually
robbing myself.
I just didn't know.
I'm sorry.
Really, I mean,
I'm really sorry.
I'm really sorry
I did that to him.
I'm sorry I hurt a lot of
people, but him in particular.
Jesus.
>>It's so great, Frank.
This is so you showing up.
>>Oh, god.
>>This is like everything I had
envisioned for you the moment I
met you, this conversation,
this realization,
you allowing yourself
to speak your truth
and just rid yourself
of the front.
And it's so beautiful.
>>I can't wait to just
give him something
that he would never in
a million years expect
and that I can barely afford.
But I think on the spiritual
plane-- and god, that
sounds so fucking sappy--
but on a spiritual plane,
I can totally afford it.
On this plane, I don't know.
But I don't really give a shit.
I want him to have something
that I really love.
[WEEPING] Oh god.
Shit.
God, this sucks, man.
>>No it doesn't, man.
It's so great.
>>Oh shit.
>>It's so great.
>>I always wanted to apologize
for anything that I ever did
that hurt you, that
was shitty, that,
even though it was drug-induced,
or drug-inspired, or--
>>It was confusion-inspired.
>>--whatever it was, Izzy,
I'm just trying to tell you--
>>Well, go ahead.
I'm accepting it.
>>--that I apologize-- that I
apologize for all the shitty
things I ever did to you.
And when I was supposed
to be looking out for you,
there I was beating you
up or giving you dope.
And for all of that,
I truly apologize.
And if you'd let
me-- if you'd let me,
I'd like to make it up to you.
OK.
What I want to do is close
your eye, whichever eye works.
Close both of them.
>>What am I doing, Frank?
What are you doing?
>>Close your eyes.
Just keep them closed.
>>It's raining.
I can feel.
>>OK.
Open.
>>And what am I supposed
to do with this?
>>Take it home.
>>[LAUGHING]
>>And that's not all.
>>They don't take this in
the baggage compartment.
>>No, I had the
shipping arranged.
Which one is the
lighter one of these?
>>This.
>>All right.
You can open this first.
>>Holy Jesus, what
are you doing?
>>This is a gift.
>>It's not my friggin birthday
>>Open this first.
>>Oh my god, this is a suit.
This is a fucking suit, Frankie.
>>This thing, you
could ride through ice.
>>Oh, Jesus.
>>Try it on.
>>Ah, look out, Frisco.
>>The red light.
>>What red light?
[MOTORCYCLE ENGINE]
>>Whoo!
>>Ha, ha.
>>Ha, ha, ha, ha.
>>Hey, Frank--
>>Was that worth it or what?
[MOTORCYCLE ENGINE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>You know, the more that you
allow yourself to give away,
it's opening up the space
for more to rush in.
>>You're making space.
>>You're making space in
your life for all new things.
>>Oh my god.
[MUSIC JASON MRAZ, "WHAT WOULD
LOVE DO NOW"]
That was really great.
I mean, I remember,
all that stuff,
how much it cost
when I bought it
and where I was at
when I bought it.
And I bought a lot of
it in Washington DC.
And a lot of it
was very expensive.
And I thought--
actually, the funny thing
was that the more
expensive it was,
the more fun it
was to give away.
And there was no
giver's remorse thing.
And I thought, there,
but for the grace of God,
go I. You know?
I caught a glimpse of my
foreskin this morning.
[LAUGHING].
I did.
>>Looking down?
>>No.
Well, I kind of
took my stomach in.
But I saw a glimpse.
I mean, we're on our way
there, boys. [LAUGHING].
I was so happy.
I can't tell you
how happy I was.
It was 287.
Are you sure?
>>It was 287.
>>Fuck.
That's almost 300 pounds, man.
>>Well, don't worry.
You're not headed-- you're
headed the other way now.
>>Well, now, yeah.
>>You look good though.
>>You do look-- your face, man.
That's why I'm thinking 20.
>>It's happy.
I think it's just not
feeling like I want to die.
Really helps a guy
look better, you know?
>>What could you say is
different about your experience
of life from the last time we
walked in this doctor's office?
>>Simply put, succinctly put
is that I'd say about 70%
of the chaos is gone in
my head and in my life.
You guys are forcing me to
push the envelope all the time.
And man, god damn
it, it's exhausting.
I sleep good.
>>Yeah.
That's great.
>>I mean, I'm worried about
the envelope falling off
the side of the cabinet.
You know what I mean?
Keep pushing that bad boy.
>>Hey.
How you doing?
>>Nice to see you, bro.
>>So how are you doing since
the last time I saw you.
>>Well, since the last time
I saw you, it's been 20 days,
right--
>>Yeah, I know.
>>--more or less.
>>You've been doing the dieting?
>>I have been sticking very,
very-- well, not very closely.
I've been just
sticking to it period.
I did three colonics.
And my closets are so clean now.
>>OK.
>>[LAUGHING]
I'm telling you, I don't
know who that guy was.
It was like this dormant
Virgo burst on the scene.
>>So you're feeling
better in general.
>>In general, I'm
feeling much better.
And in general, I'm feeling
much more energetic.
I just feel hopeful.
I feel alive.
I look forward to
the day as opposed
to before, where I
was really depressed
and just feeling hopeless.
When I first came
here, I felt fat.
My stomach is the same
size, but I don't feel fat.
It doesn't feel the same.
>>No shortness of breath?
>>Well, when I
run up the stairs.
>>OK.
Gas or bloating?
>>Well, no bloating,
but gas in the sense
that when you eat
this stuff, man,
you can raise a goddamn balloon.
But not gas in the sense
that it's negative.
It's unpleasant
for other people.
But it doesn't bother me at all.
>>OK.
How are your bowel movements?
Are they more regular?
>>My bowel movements
are spectacular.
>>OK.
Great.
>>They're not just good.
I mean, they're really an event.
They're an event.
Actually, they're such
an event, I don't even
use toilet paper anymore.
I just go straight
to the shower.
>>No problem with urination?
>>Nope.
>>OK.
>>Are you sleeping well?
>>I'm sleeping very well.
>>OK.
How's your energy level?
>>It's better, man.
Are you kidding?
It's much, much
better, much better.
>>Wonderful.
OK.
Your lab work, that
was done, right?
>>Yeah it was done.
The lab work that
I do know about
is the blood work
with the hep C.
And they said there's no
visible traces of it whatsoever.
They just want to continue the
therapy a couple more weeks--
a few more weeks, rather.
Than could be anywhere
from three to six
weeks, whatever he says.
Because apparently,
they just want
to make sure they
get everything.
But for all intents
and purposes,
I'm cured of hep C,
which is really cool.
>>Yeah, it's wonderful.
>>Did we discuss the results
of the test last time?
>>Yeah, you said I
was a fat bastard.
>>[CHUCKLING]
>>[LAUGHING]
>>OK.
So let's do that and compare
the results of your tests.
OK?
>>OK.
>>He's like Mr. Rogers.
Let's go over to the train.
This is a big deal, man.
>>Your shoes.
What about your shoes?
>>That's all right.
The shoes are all right.
>>Did you have your
shoes on last time?
>>Yeah, he did.
That'd be like 264.
>>Wow.
That's a lot, man.
What was it before?
>>287.
>>Holy shit.
>>So what do you got now, Frank?
>>How many?
Wait a minute, man.
Hold on.
That shit is wrong, man.
>>The scale just
became his best friend.
>>This scale is fucked up, man.
Wait a second.
>>No, it's not lying.
We used the same scale.
Yeah, so between 264 and 265.
>>No kidding?
Holy Christ.
Jesus, no wonder I saw
my foreskin this morning.
A pound a day.
Wow.
>>And it shows.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>"Dear Mia, I hope
this letter finds
you well and in good spirits.
We have known each
other nearly 30 years
and raised two children.
Over the years,
I have, at times,
responded with anger
and resentment--
I have responded to you
with anger and resentment.
I want to apologize
for all the times
I was unreliable and
emotionally irresponsible due
to my drinking.
The anger I held
onto over the years
was more empowering than
to deal with how crushed I
was when we divorced.
Even when we were in court,
I looked across the aisle
and wondered how love
turns into litigation.
I began to believe that
you never really loved me.
That feeling was
too overwhelming.
Anger was a place
of false power.
I would like you to consider the
possibility of a relationship
of trust and warmth,
a relationship where
we could both be with our own
children at the same time.
I apologize for my
terrible behavior
as I plunged headfirst
into the pit of addiction.
I have been clean and
sober for 17 years.
Many of the characteristics
that I demonstrated
were triggered by alcohol.
That is not an excuse,
it's just an explanation.
I invite you to consider
that I am a different person.
You may-- you may have loved
me, but I did not love myself.
As a result, I blamed you for my
inability to feel loved by you.
I ask you to consider the
possibility that we need not
have a broken family.
What we could have is a
mutually loving relationship
with our children and
release the broken record
of hostilities.
I will always be
grateful for you
choosing me to be the dad of
our beautiful Nick and Lisa.
Let us be an example of love
and generosity and compassion.
I invite you and
Lisa, my daughter,
to come to San Francisco
and be with who I am now.
Since this is an invitation,
I will pay for the tickets.
Thank you for the taking the
time to read this letter.
I request that you respond
as soon as you comfortably
can so that I can arrange
travel most convenient for you."
>>Oh, I'm so-- you
look good, Frank.
You look good.
>>I'm gonna go by and check
out the-- stop by the house.
Because last night,
I stopped by.
And it was some smooth, sexy
records on, candles lit,
a nice vanilla aroma in the air.
And people were
putting on clothes
when I busted through
the door with the camera.
So definitely,
that's a good sign.
Lovemaking is lovemaking.
[INAUDIBLE] it's the boys.
What's been the experience?
>>My experience is
that I'm still enraged.
I am still so caught up in
my anger towards my in-laws
and my daughter and Mia.
Part of my rage is that I
feel like I can't do anything
about it.
I can't do-- and I
fucking want to break
my fucking
brother-in-law's face.
I want to smash my
sister-in-law's face.
I want to fucking
hit all of them
for letting this
whole thing happen,
to take away my ability
to take care of my kid,
to take-- to fucking
do that to me
and to not even question
once whether or not
what they were hearing or what
they were assuming was true.
And it's like this gang
of people that maintain
this thing with my daughter.
Because my daughter could not
maintain this kind of feeling.
>>Whoa, whoa, whoa.
>>Shut the fuck up.
I'm not interrupting you.
>>Wait a minute.
>>Well, listen--
>>I want the story to be clear.
>>You want the story to be what?
Your way?
Fuck you.
>>Until you see Lisa face to
face and deal with her anger--
she's angry because of what
she saw me going through.
Because see, you
didn't see that.
She saw it.
I am trying to help you.
And the way I can
help you is to try
to figure out what to do
with the family over there.
>>You want to help me?
Go tell Lisa that it was a
fucked up thing that everybody
did.
And maybe she'll start seeing--
maybe she starts getting--
>>Do you think that--
don't you think
that I have said things to her?
>>No.
No, I don't I don't think
that-- don't believe that nobody
has said anything that remotely
fucking resembles the truth
to that kid, not even remotely.
Did anybody ever say to her
this was not right, what we did?
No.
Nobody ever said that.
Because they can't.
They haven't got
the fucking balls.
Nobody has the balls, in
that family, to say, hey,
this was a wrong thing.
Let's deal with it.
No.
>>Yeah.
>>We were right.
Frank, fucking right.
I gotta go.
I'm so fucking-- I'm crazy.
I'm just so angry right now.
>>You did what you
selfishly thought was right.
You just cared about
yourself, Frank.
You didn't do it for Nick.
Because his whole fucking
thing affected Nick too.
What kind of psychological
shit did you put him through?
You didn't think about him.
You thought about Frank.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>You've come all this way.
>>I feel I didn't get anywheres.
I know what you saying.
Right at this moment, I feel
like I might as well have not
gone anywhere.
As miserable, and as low, and
as rageful and self-loathing as
I feel right now, I
might as well still
be a fucking dope fiend,
is the way I feel.
>>Maybe you're bumping
right up against what
you need to bump up against.
>>I'm bumping up to something.
But you know what, maybe I am.
But I'm fucking tired of
bumping up against shit, man.
I mean, I know life is life.
But it's like I'm bumping up
against shit all the time.
I'm tired, man.
I'm fucking tired of it.
I'm tired of it.
I'm tired of this rage.
I'm tired of being pissed off.
I'm stuck.
I feel stuck.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>Today is about
love and acceptance,
perfect after what
you just went through.
Now the thing is just
getting you to see that.
>>Yeah.
Resistance causes
pain and lethargy.
It is when we
practice acceptance
that new possibilities appear.
Exploration-- acknowledge
two events in life that you
don't trust as--
>>Divinity's.
>>--as Divinity's
perfect expression.
Identify what it would
take for you to bring love
and acceptance to those events.
Share that with your partner.
You know, I'm
drawing a blank, man.
>>If you acknowledged it as
the Divine was putting this
in front of you for a reason--
>>It would be easier to swallow.
>>Right.
And you would be
more interested.
Like, OK, what is there for
me instead of whatever--
however you're reacting now.
>>Well, that's true.
>>As we were sitting
there, she left.
And you just like pfff,
like flatlined, just [BEEP].
You know?
And that's the thing to trust is
just that that interaction was
Divinity's perfect expression.
Or in layman, it was the
perfect thing to come up.
Identify what it would
take for you to bring love
and acceptance to those events.
>>What would it take?
>>Yeah.
Or what would you
have to let go of?
>>I would have to
let go of-- I would
have to let go of my
doubts about who I am
and what my motives are.
>>Yeah.
>>I mean, let go of what I
think other people are thinking
and let go of what other
people may even tell me
and trust that 54 years on
the planet did not render me
a complete fucking moron.
>>You know, we're
on a 42-day path.
It's not going to--
>>Not all rosy.
But it's like, this is the
perfect thing to have come up.
This is what you're after.
This is the meat
of what you want.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>I want you to get
this-- that she's
rooting for you
and your daughter
to have a relationship.
>>Oh, I believe that.
>>And she actually said
it since we've been here.
>>I totally believe that.
>>Don't believe it.
Acknowledge her for--
>>I believe and I acknowledge
that you want me and Lisa
to have a good relationship.
And my response,
unfortunately, has
been holding onto
old stuff where,
rather than acknowledge
you for where you are now,
blaming you for what
happened before.
So I apologize for that.
And I will try really
hard to transcend that,
and to be honest with
you, not only because
of you but because it's
just no good for me.
I can feel it.
It literally feels like
it's tearing me up inside.
[BACKGROUND CONVERSATION]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[AIRPLANE ENGINE]
>>Nice.
I can't believe it's Hawaii.
We're really here.
Marone, this is a long
ways from Brooklyn.
>>This is Frank Ferrante.
He's-- welcome to the seminar.
He's also-- we're making
a documentary film
about his transformation
through raw food, and abundance,
and being loved by three
20-year-old men that called him
into being.
And then--
>>And I weighed myself
on the luggage scale.
I stood on the scale.
I lost 45 pounds.
>>Wow.
>>Whoo.
>>--what I want to get of this.
Because to me, I feel
similar to Conor to this.
I am totally open.
I feel like if I
say, well, this is
what I want to get out of it,
I'm already limiting myself.
I have no idea what to expect.
So who am I kidding?
I know I'm very deeply
capable of deep love.
I know that.
And I compartmentalize
that in the relationship
I have with my children, the
relationship I have with you
guys, you know, and my friends.
And then, of course,
there's the relationship
I have with women, which
I see as very cynical.
I'm afraid of sex.
I'm afraid of-- and I used
to be a major '80s womanizer.
I mean, I never called
anybody by their first name
because I couldn't remember.
And I can't believe
I just admitted that.
You know?
I'm so good at looking
like I'm not like that.
You know?
>>Yep.
Vulnerability builds
strength, men.
>>Yeah, I know.
There's strength
in vulnerability.
It's the friction in the
oyster that creates the pearl.
Yeah, on, and on,
and on, and on.
And meanwhile, I'm still here,
all fucked up in the head.
I'm 54, bro.
I got a saying for everything.
[LAUGHING]
They must be making
exciting film.
[ROOSTERS CROWING]
Yum.
Yum, yum, yum.
Hey, you gotta try this.
Did you try these?
>>Uh-uh.
>>Come here.
Try this.
>>What is that?
>>What do you mean, what is it?
You're in Hawaii, you
don't know what that is?
>>Mmm, papaya.
>>Is that ridiculously
good or what?
>>That is bomb diggity.
It's bomb diggity.
>>Munch.
Come on.
Can I buy you a
sugar cane drink?
Or as they used to say--
>>A sugar cane drink?
>>--honey, can I
buy you a drink?
>>Sure.
>>All right.
Thank you, Stephanie.
>>One for you too.
>>Salute.
>>Cheers, man.
Thank you very much.
Are you going to
come do the yoga?
>>Yeah, sure.
Why not?
>>It starts in five minutes.
>>Yeah, but it's got-- I
mean, I'm a real beginner.
[ATMOSPHERIC MUSIC]
>>Out with the hands.
Press your backs together.
>>How you doing, Frank?
>>Oh, just peachy.
How are you?
[INSPIRATIONAL MUSIC]
[CRICKETS CHIRPING]
>>[MUMBLING]
>>It's time to get up, buddy.
[MUSIC MERCY HOWLS, "DEAR FEAR"]
I knew you would
be right behind me.
>>What's going on?
>>You know, I could not sleep.
I kept getting up.
I came down here.
I kept having these bad
dreams, bad visions.
And I'm exhausted.
And he always says
that's resistance.
But I'm sitting in the
group and I'm nodding.
And I think that's
extremely rude.
>>Basically, what's
going down is
the whole I'm going
to go check out
thing is coming up big time.
And we ain't buying it.
Yeah, I just feeling like this
is perfect place environment
for Frank to really let
go of the whole I'm tired,
I don't want to feel this.
This is your shtick, Frankie.
>>OK.
>>Be tired.
I'm tired.
>>My schtick--
>>What are you tired from?
You slept, before
we left, 20 hours.
That's the block.
You're thing, Frank,
is, I'm tired.
>>You may be right.
But I'm sitting in it--
>>But this is the point to push.
This is the point
to keep pushing.
Coming down from
the seminar is not
any better than sitting
there falling asleep.
Because you are,
you're confronted.
The falling asleep
is confronted.
You don't want to see something.
>>At one point, you guys can
really be a pain in the ass.
>>Yeah, we can, because
you asked for it.
Frank, my request is this.
My request isnt'
that you go upstairs
and sit there because I'm
having you go back up there.
My request is that you
start generating yourself.
>>Well, all right.
[MUSIC AUDREY STEELE, "I WANNA
BE FRANK"]
I'm just thinking
about my parents.
I really don't like thinking
about my parents very much.
We had a house that
had no trust in it.
Anything could happen.
You couldn't leave a set
of keys on the table.
Because it'd be gone
because you needed the car.
Just really low stuff like that.
Just a notable absence of joy.
And I feel responsible for
some of that absence of joy--
you know, the lies, stealing,
the hospitals, the jails,
suicide attempts.
It was no picnic.
And I'm sorry.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Now that this project
is coming to an end,
I can't help but to get present
to all the parts of my life it
has touched, places
I was numb to,
places I couldn't see or feel.
But now I can.
42 days ago, I
thought I was just
going to eat some nuclear
powered rabbit food,
lose some weight,
and get healthy.
I had no idea at that time
that it would transform
so many aspects of my life.
When I met Ryland,
my initial wish
was to fall in love one
more time before I die.
And what I realize
now is that the person
I needed to fall in love
with all along was me.
There is one thing,
however, out of all
that happened that tops
everything, something
I believed, for the longest
time, would never happen.
I got my daughter back.
[KISSING]
>>What's with the tie?
>>I knew.
I recognized you by your feet.
Good for you.
>>You match so well.
>>I be stylin' and shit.
Is it over here?
Oh, wait a minute, it's five.
This way.
>>Five.
>>How was your flight?
Who's your friend?
>>Oh, this guy travels
with me everywhere.
>>Oh, really?
>>It's my pillow.
It's been everywhere.
>>Are you hungry, or
tired, or anything?
[MUSIC CAT MARTINO, "NEVER
ENDING"]
[MUSIC AIDAN MAKEPEACE, "HERO"]
[APPLAUSE]
In order to connect,
genuinely connect,
I have to be authentic.
And to be authentic, I
have to be vulnerable.
And I don't like
to be vulnerable.
But in order to get this thing
that I need to nurture my soul,
I have to be that way.
I'm probably about 60% raw.
And I do fish and
chicken occasionally.
I feel like I'm committed a sin.
Like, bless me father,
for I have sinned.
Oh my god, I had a
piece of chicken.
Oh, Jesus.
You know, the amazing
thing about this
is that 3 and 1/2
years ago, I was
surrounded by 10 paramedics
trying to revive my sorry ass.
And here I am.
I mean, that means that
miracles can happen to anybody.
>>So many people
in this country are
hopeless about their situation.
And I just want to commend
you for bringing hope.
>>Wow.
>>And that is what
you have done.
And that is what you are doing.
So thank you so much.
>>Wow.
Thank you.